---
layout: page
title: Faq
permalink: /faq/
---

## How can I use Purple?
Since the main reason why smart contracts are not approachable today is the fact that they require a software developer to write and upload them to the network. This effectively prevents the vast majority of the population from harnessing the full potential of smart contracts. We intend to launch togheter with Purple a website where software developers can upload contract templates which fulfill most of the common use cases. This is similar to how Wordpress has many website templates available written by different software developers and one can simply choose a template which fulfills his or her specific needs. In case of custom or advanced smart contracts a software developer is still required to write and upload them.

## How secure are Purple contracts?
Because the language used to develop smart contracts is typed and immutable, the contract’s code can be formally verified (it can be mathematically proved that it is correct).  Immutability means that all of the bugs commonly found in mutable languages are ruled out from the start (mutable languages change data by changing variables, immutable languages don’t have variables, they use constants and change data by copying it to a new constant with the intended changes). While immutable languages are not popular in most of today’s software development circles, in the context of writing smart contracts, which cannot be altered after being uploaded to the network, immutable languages are the best fit since they provide many safety nets right from the start. Most of Ethereum’s bugs and security exploits, like most bugs and security exploits in all software come just from the fact that the programming languages used in their development are mutable. Mutable languages are often preffered for two reasons: Performance and low developer cost of acquisition since the paradigm is so widespread. It all started in the 70’s when performance was paramount and people would sacrifice security in order to achieve fast software. However, today’s world, which has highly performant hardware, doesn’t need code that is optimized for performance since optimizations are done by compilers and today’s CPUs are extremely fast. Today’s world, in which system breaches are almost on a day to day basis, security is an absolute necessity in software and even more so in the context of smart contracts where actual value is being transferred. Security is an area where immutable languages shine.  

## Will I be able to write contracts in Javascript or other widespread languages?
In the future, yes. This is a priority that will be addressed after the testing phase of the Purple protocol has ended. We will build a software development kit for most of the mainstream programming languages. 

## Can I mine on the Purple network?
Yes. Any computer connected to the network who verifies a certain transaction or smart contract execution  receives it’s fee as reward and since the number of transactions a node in the network can execute in parallel is only limited by it’s hardware and the amount of transactions flowing through the network at that given time, nodes with better hardware will receive more transaction fees.